{% docs __overview__ %}

# Welcome to the Silverscreen Data Warehouse

This documentation provides a comprehensive guide to our data models, sources, and business logic. It's designed to help you understand the data, its lineage, and its intended use.

## Business objective

**Providing a comprehensive accessment of three movie theatres performance.**

* financial performance accessment of individual movies 
* kpis mainly tickets sold, revenue generated, costs for referential
* aggregation on level of movies, cinemas and months

## End product

A **wide table in our datawarehouse** that holds above mentioned information.

## Data flow in pipeline

Our data is structured in a logical flow:
- **Sources**: The starting point for all data, ingested from our raw systems.
- **Staging**: Cleaned and standardized data ready for modeling.
- **Marts**: Business-ready tables designed for analysis and reporting.

*Note* that raw data is handed over in CSV files from different departments or movie locations. These files as well as the produced views and tables are all in our Snoflake company datawarehouse.

## Anomalies and cleaning approach

The initial EDA and tests later showed following anomalies:
* **missing values** mostly in movies_database 
    * qualitative columns like PG-rating, genre or else. *Imputation* with 'unknown'.
    * movie_length (in minutes). *No imputation* will be a NULL value.
* **duplicates** in invoices. 
    * full duplicate (every column same values): elimination of one column
    * partly duplicated (same invoice_id but additional movie or different genre but same title): no deduplication. Assumption is that it is a movie we rented and for which costs incurred. 
* **different state of data**, i.e.: we have sales information for movies for which we don't have a invoice (yet)
    * assumption is that this is not messy data and we will include all information available
    * technical: full outer join used and missing values imputed. See doc in consumer level.

## Freshness of documentation

This documentation is automatically generated by dbt, so it's always up-to-date with our latest code.

{% enddocs %}